# Hugging Face classifier

This project enables the use of custom classifiers from Hugging Face.

## Dataset Structure and Format

This section outlines the structure and format of the datasets for custom Hugging Face classifiers. All data will be stored as Parquet files within a designated AWS S3 bucket.

### Input Data

The input data used for classification will have the following schema:

* **`id`** (string): A unique identifier for each data sample.
* **`text`** (string): The text snippet that will be fed into the Hugging Face transformer model for classification.


**Example Input Parquet File:**

| id        | text                                               |
|-----------|----------------------------------------------------|
| "sample_1" | "This is an example text for classification."      |
| "sample_2" | "Another piece of text to be analyzed."           |
| "sample_3" | "Hugging Face transformers are powerful."        |


### Output Data

The output data generated by the custom classifiers will have the following schema:

* **`id`** (string): This column will directly correspond to the `id` column in the input data.
* **`score`** (float): A confidence score (between 0 and 1, inclusive) for the predicted `label`.
* **`label`** (string): The predicted class or category assigned to the corresponding input text.

**Example Output Parquet File:**


| id        | score | label    |
|-----------|-------|----------|
| "sample_1" | 0.95  | "positive" |
| "sample_2" | 0.12  | "negative" |
| "sample_3" | 0.88  | "positive" |


## Getting started with development

It is recommended to do all the development for this project in a Docker container rather than a local `venv` as resolving dependency conflicts has proven tricky.

To start the development environment run the following commands:

`make run_bash_in_container`

`cd projects/hugging_face_classifier`

See the `Makefile` for more commands.

## Deploying the prefect deployments

The repo has a number of [Prefect](https://docs.prefect.io/) flows and basic deployments that can
be used to orchestrate and run data pipelines. To deploy the flows you need to have a Prefect Cloud
account or a Prefect Server instance running. It is recommended that you have a worker with a GPU.

There is a default `prefect.yaml` that can be used to deploy the flows.

First set your prefect environment. For instance the cloud:
https://docs.prefect.io/v3/manage/cloud/connect-to-cloud.

You can also add `prefect.toml` to `phoenix/python/` to override the configuration of prefect.

Then:
```
export HF_WORK_POOL=<your_work_pool>
# HF_IMAGE needs to be accessible by the worker and should include tag if using
export HF_IMAGE=<your_docker_image>
make prefect_deploy_all
```

## Logging

`default_logging.yaml` is used to configure the logging for the project. The file can be changed
using the environment variable `LOGGING_CONFIG_FILE`.
